Using a BRAM-based FIFO to feed 10 parallel FP32 multipliers involves a data distribution system that ensures each multiplier receives a continuous stream of data. The core challenge is efficiently routing a single stream of input data to 10 separate inputs without creating routing bottlenecks or stalls.
The best approach involves using an AXI4-Stream Interconnect in a 1 (Master) to 10 (Slave) configuration or implementing custom routing logic using the TDEST (Transaction Destination) signal.
Implementation Strategy (Recommended in Vivado IPI)
The most robust and efficient way to achieve this in Vivado is by utilizing IP Integrator (IPI) and Xilinx's AXI infrastructure IP cores.
Instantiate Components: Add the following IP cores to your block design:
FIFO Generator (Configured as BRAM AXI-Stream FIFO): Acts as your main input buffer.
AXI4-Stream Interconnect (Configured for 1 Master to 10 Slaves): This IP handles the routing of data from the single FIFO output to the 10 multiplier inputs.
10 x Floating-Point Multipliers: Your processing elements.
Configure the AXI4-Stream Interconnect:
Customize the AXI4-Stream Interconnect.
Set Number of Slave Interfaces to 1 (this connects to the FIFO's master port).
Set Number of Master Interfaces to 10 (these connect to the multipliers' slave ports).
Enable Control Register Routing or utilize the TDEST signal. The interconnect routes packets based on the value of the TDEST signal (Transaction Destination) in the AXI stream.
You must configure the base/high range of TDEST for each of the 10 master interfaces (multipliers).
Generate/Control the TDEST Signal:
This is the key piece of logic you must design in RTL (Verilog or VHDL) before the main FIFO:
Your data source needs to generate both the 32-bit floating-point data (TDATA) and a TDEST value for each data word or packet. The TDEST value (0 through 9)
tells the AXI4-Stream Interconnect which of the 10 multipliers the data is intended for.
A simple state machine or counter can handle the routing logic if the data arrives in a predictable sequence (e.g., Data for Mult 0,



so here is what I am thinking based upon above. all fifos use iPI

we will have the following fp32 fifos
1.) multiply FIFO
2.) mulitply add(FMA) fifo
3.) add fifo
4.) subtract fifo.
5.) square root fifo
6.) division fifo

higher level fifo use lower level.
7.) vec3 add fifo
8.) vec3 subtract fifo
9.) vec3 scale fifo
10.) vec3 magnitude fifo
11.) vec3 normailze fifo

12.) vec4 dot product fifo (use fma fifos above)


TODO:
 stage 1.)
     1a.) implement multiply fifo from above. with generic size(configuarbale). also have dual port functionaality, iif that helps performance)
     1b. ) i want to test throughput of this fifo. how many mutiplies per second of two fp32(e.g.with 10 mutipliers?)
     1c.) i would like to determine threshold of  backed up( where fifo backed up if entries to be processed greater than number of mutipliers times a constant(2) )
     1d.) i would like to know resource usage for stage1(for its configuration, i.e. number of multipliers.)
     1e.) i would want to be able to simulate how it would run on device. with correcc timing ,delays,etc. (could i use another bram that just has X number of fp32's, to be used in calculations above)
 stage 2.)
     2a.) implement multiplyADD(mfa) fifo with generic size(configuarbale)
     2b.) implement vec4 dot product fifo that uses fifo created in 2a.
